Ladies and gentlemen, friends, I kind of see.
This is Lestus Kefau, the venue of the first and the series of television programs from the
nation's capital, where we will review from time to time the proceedings in Congress and
happenings of importance are going on in Washington.
Last year we did this for five minutes once a week.
This year in order to have more depth in the news and to be able to have more distinguished
guests on the program we are going to take 15 minutes.
And I certainly appreciate that this station carrying this program as a public service.
I would appreciate you writing me and your suggestions about the program so that we can
make it more useful and more informative.
Today we are highly honored to have on our next program of the four weeks front today.
Today we are highly honored to have with us the new majority leader, the Democratic
leader of the United States Senate.
We had a able and efficient leader in Senator Lyndon B. Johnson for the past eight or
nine years.
Senator Johnson has been elevated to the vice presidency as all of you know.
And succeeding here is the distinguished senator from Montana, Mike Mansfield.
Mike, it's certainly good to have you.
You were elected by unanimous vote of all of the Democratic senators.
We thank you, a patient, able, that you will carry out the program for the good of the
people.
And I want you to say introduce you to people of Tennessee.
Well, as to say, I only hope that I can live up to the high hopes, the higher expectations
that you and my other colleagues have placed in me.
I have no illusions about the job, but I'm depending on people like you and others to help
me over the rough spots.
We'll do our best collectively to reinforce the Kennedy program and to try and get this
country back on an even keel and to bring some stability in the field of formulations.
Well, Mike, you've been our very effective grip.
That's the second in command for a number of years.
We all know of your ability, your sincerity, your great integrity, and your forward
looking ideas about what's good for our nation and what's good for our best chance of
having peace in the world.
And we can certainly count on all of us to help you in every way that we possibly can.
Incidentally, folks, Senator Mansfield is no stranger to Tennessee.
We've been reserved in the House of Representatives from 1943 until I left in 1948.
And then you came to the Senate in 1950, I believe Mike.
Back in 1954, when I was running for my separate term in the United States Senate, Senator
Mansfield was good enough to come down to Cookville, Tennessee, where he made the opening speech
in my campaign during that year.
A lot of people in Nashville and Cookville remember you very pleasantly.
You remember that occasion?
Yes, yes.
I certainly do.
And I remember the five of the years.
I remember that year as one of the finest speeches you ever made, too.
Well, the reason was because it was one of the nicest groups I've ever faced.
But you know, I want to go back to Tennessee someday to spend some time in the mountains and
the western part of your state to look over the TDA and see the benefits it's brought to
your people.
And incidentally, you know, there's a great deal of similarity between Montana and Tennessee.
We have mountains, we have dams, we have rivers that need controlling.
And you may be surprised.
Everybody thinks that people from Tennessee always migrate to Texas.
But we have a good many Tennesseans out in Montana and I'm happy to say they're a good
demifact.
Well, that's right, Mike.
I was out there during the last campaign and I saw a lot of them, so the tool and all
the vote right.
All we want you to come back, because we both of our states are developing.
We have great plans for the future and we want you to bring more in down sometime when
the session is not so hectic and enjoy our mountains or TBA even our people.
Well, Mike, what's the program?
First, let's say, talk about the members of the cabinet and the official family that President
of the Black Kennedy has designated.
I think that he has a fine team and the field of foreign affairs.
I think he has experienced people.
And I think he's getting a well-rounded group of people to carry.
A car with his new friend to your program.
What is your feeling about it?
I agree with you, Estes.
I think that he's made a wonderful set of selections so far.
It is anticipated that beginning very shortly, the appropriate committees in the Senate will
start hearings on these nominees so that we can bring them to the floor of the Senate
shortly after the inaugural for confirmation.
And after that, we will of course expect the committees likewise to start hearings before
the inauguration on the various legislative proposals, which President Kennedy has announced
during the course of his campaign and six.
Well, Mike, as much as he has picked good people in and as much as the Senate always respects
the right and the desire of the President to have the people that he wants to help him,
I wouldn't anticipate any trouble on any of the confirmation of any of the cabinet members.
Would you?
No, I dare say that all of them will be approved fairly expeditiously.
And I look for little friction, little argument, and fairly speedy consideration and approval.
But Mike, I've been telling everybody that I thought there were so many problems in the
world, both domestically with unemployment and difficulties we're having here at home
as well as many hectic problems and international affairs that I thought we would have.
Very good teamwork was among the insiports, the Democrats are concerned and insiports,
the Republicans are concerned, at least for a considerable period of time, a good honeymoon.
Do you think that will be true?
Yes, I think so, especially in the field of foreign policy, I believe that both parties will
face the interests of the country ahead of the interests of their particular party.
I think even in the field of domestic affairs that there will not be the friction which
you great many anticipate because many Republicans will vote for these programs and do so all
the more willingly because they are now not under pressure from the White House to vote
the way the White House wants them to.
So I look forward to a period of harmony and unity.
There may be a few squabbles here and there, but it wouldn't be a Senate or a Democratic
party if we didn't have these squabbles occasionally.
But I anticipate that we're carried through the President's program in fairly good fashion
and I would hope that when this session of the Congress is concluded, we would be judged
not under quantity of the legislation which we passed but rather the quality.
Well that's what we're all hoping for and let's hope that honeymoon lasts as long as possible
and we can get the President's program over and get some things done for the people and
improve our situation in the world.
Well now Mr. Majority Leader, Mike, we're now engaged in a fight about the amendment of
rule 22 which is the, as all of you know, is the rule with that about determination
of the faith in preventing the full of usters.
What is the situation about that?
Are we going to be able to get that behind us pretty soon?
I would hope so, Estes.
I would imagine that there will be a motion to table or move the previous question in
due time.
That will bring this matter to a head and then we will be able to get on to the business
of the President's program.
You know I think people ought to recognize the fact that while there is a need for some
reform and rule 22 that the important thing now is to get the President's program underway.
It encompasses a great many facets in the field of our domestic economy, housing for
example which is in a terrible slump at the present time and which will do much to create
employment for our people.
The depressed areas, and I'm sure you have some of them down in your state as I have in
mind.
Mike, on that subject, depressed areas, but we're getting more letters about that and most
than the other subject.
We have some 76 communities where there is an unemployment particularly in cool mining
sections like Innerians, Cochyan, Grande County where the coal is running out and it's
expensive to man it and perhaps in very bad situation.
So that bill is greatly needed in many parts of Tennessee as it is elsewhere.
Do you think, of course, we passed a bill one time in Congress and we got to be told
it is bad?
That's right at all.
But now we have a President who will not be to a bill of that kind and I think we can
pass a bill more in keeping with the realities of the situation.
And Mike about unemployment, unemployment is a pretty high peak.
And what is your feeling about the best thing we can do and the most expeditious one to
try to enable people to get back to work properly?
Well, I think we ought to engage upon the President's program, aged depressed areas,
both rural and urban, housing program which will spur the construction industry and give
sustenance to our people, aid to education, raising the minimum wage, all these are important
and all of them are necessary because if my information is correct by about the 1st of
February, we will have something on the order of 5 million perhaps more unemployed.
Now this has been referred to during the course of the late campaign as a quote, quote,
unquote in our economy.
I hope it is not the pause that depresses.
It is certainly something which calls for action with a man like Kennedy in the White
House.
Action will be taken to try and alleviate the situations in what you, in these areas you
have referred to, sometimes known as pockets of poverty, so that men and women able and
willing will have the opportunity and the right to work and achieve a decent life?
Well, Mike, I always heard that there feel that a good housing program, and we have two
vetoed last year and we finally got through a very, very watered down housing program which
is not adequate at all, but do more to aspire and to increase employment immediately than
almost anything else.
Not only in the timber industry and among construction workers, but also in the factories
where they make frigidaires, stoves, and heaters and apprentices.
So I imagine that will be how many poverty lists.
It will indeed, and what you said is correct because it goes far beyond the building of a
house that affects so many other fields of economic endeavor, that what it does is create
employment as it goes along and I think we have to do something to overcome the terrible
slump and housing evident this past year.
Well, Mike and Montana, you are interested in the development of the harnessing of the
Columbia, I mean of the Missouri River and other rivers.
We in Tennessee, of course, are very proud of the Tennessee Valley Authority and for the
information of all you good folks, that Senator Manstil, both as a Congressman and as a
Senator, has always been a tower strength for the Tennessee Valley Authority to protect
it from Father Ifon.
So we feel, matter of it, on that school that he is the majority reader.
Well, as to if I can tell you this, that it was because of your constant and unfeeling
championship of the TVA that you were so easily able to convert so many of us to thousands
to keep us under your banner.
Well, of course, Senator, going to have very much for the TVA, but that's how you feel
otherwise you wouldn't have been so enthusiastic, Mike.
But a resource development and building up our country will be a vital part of the
program of the President and of the Congress.
Very vital part.
In the minute or two remaining, I'm going to talk about the development of our great
national parts.
You have a, we have a smokey mountain national part and you have Yellowstone and Clayshare.
Clayshare and others.
We need to give them more attention, not your thoughts.
Yes, indeed.
Considering more attention, I would hope that the Mission 66 program would be accentuated,
that the amounts of money which must be spent would be put into our parks because they
do represent an investment in which all America can participate.
And I think that if we do not undertake a program or this kind that we will be the losers
and the result may well be that the parks will be terrible, they're still better.
Well, I might go, we don't have much time remaining, but we've seen that you've been
have a package for the reform of the electoral college of which I'm interested to.
Will that be part of the program?
No, that is my own personal idea, but I think something ought to be done about the
electoral college, something ought to be done about the length and the cost of campaigns
and something ought to be done about the interregnum between the election and the time of
president takes over.
Well, I certainly agree with you and I've been working on that myself as you know for
a number of years.
But thank you very much, Senator Mansfield.
You're a great leader and a great friend of the people of this nation under Tennessee.
As does it's a pleasure.
I'm Lewis and Devamon until four weeks from now, that's all.
Thank you very much.